✅ When to use static

Use static when:

The value is common for all objects

You don’t need object-specific data

You want to access it without creating an object

🧠 Why?

Because static members are loaded once into memory, shared by all objects.

non-static — Object Level

✅ When to use non-static

Use non-static when:

Each object needs its own data

Behavior depends on object state

You must access instance variables

🧠 Why?

Because non-static members live inside objects.

OOPS:
Object-Oriented Programming is a methodology or paradigm to design a program using classes and objects

Any entity states and the behaviours/actions is called object.
contains variables and methods

A class is a template or blueprint for creating objects
A class is to execute a act.

An object is a real-world entity that has
👉 state (data) and
👉 behavior (methods)

new is block of memory
constructor loads all variables and methods into that block that is object.

Demo d = new Demo();
d is non primitive but it reference to another block so it is also a reference variable

constructor will load only non static member of class

class Demo{
    int a; -> non static variable
    static int b;
}

new memory block(creation of object) -> constructor loads for non static
we should create object to use or call for non static variables

Constructor: special member of class
same as classname
used to load the non static members in object
			**Constructors**

Default Constructor 				Programmer Defined Constructor -> No argument and Parameterized Constructor
The constructor created by compiler
so it is running if we just create object
It is added when no constructor is created by programmer
If you write even one constructor, Java does NOT create the default constructor.

Syntax
Acceess Modifier className(){
}

No argument:
It does not take any parameters
Programmer will write this

Parameterized Constructor:
We should give parameters
We can pass the values into object itself.
We can reduce LOC

this keyword is a non static variable used for current object reference(local variable name and object variable name should be same then this is used).

Constructor Overloading: process of creating multiple constructor in same class

If only one parameter given then accept it
if we have two parameter then use it
if 3 then also accept

Constructor Chaining:

To reuse initialization logic
To reduce duplicate code
To control the order of initialization

Constructor Chaining means calling one constructor from another constructor within the same class or a parent class.
Calling the constructor which perform the same task
c1 c2 c3
c2 can call c1
c3 can call c2 and c1
We should use this() call statement -> this() must be the first statement in the constructor and only this call statement in used in constructor

Non static method
with object creation we can use these methods

Static Methods:
we can access in same and different class
In different class then Classname.Methodname();

static variable
created using static keyword
if we have common info for every object then use static instead of passing the data in object every time

Static Initializers->A static initializer is a block of code that executes once at class loading time to initialize static variables. executes initially
Single Line -> static variable
Multi Line-> static{multiple tasks}
Get executes from top to bottom
At the time of class loading it will executes
Static block runs before main()

Non static Initializer(Instance Variable) - execute at time of object creation
Single Line 
Multi Line
top to buttom
A non-static initializer is used to execute common initialization logic for every object before the constructor runs.
